---
layout: post
title: "Lyapunov Equations"
modified:
categories: papers
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
comments: false
date: 2017-03-30T08:011:17-04:00

---

This article is going to summarize the results for the following Lyapunov equation,
$$
\begin{align}
  A^*X+XA+Q=0
\end{align}
$$
with given real matrices A and Q.

{:.james-box}
The first observable constraint here is that this equation only has a unique solution if A has no complex conjugate pairs.

{:.lemma-box}
Lemma 3.18 Assume that A is stable, then the following statements hold:  
X = \\(\int_0^\infty e^{A^*t}Qe^{At}dt\\)  
\\(X>0\\) if \\(Q>0\\) and \\(X \geq 0$ if $Q \geq 0\\)  
if \\(Q \geq 0\\), then \\((Q,A)\\) is observable iff \\(X > 0\\).

This last result states that if we have a stable A matrix and Q is positive-semidefinite then our solution X must be positive-definite.

We can use this result to construct two different Lyapunov equations.
The first looks at the pair \\((C,A)\\) for observability and we can say our system is observable if the solution X to the following equation is positive-definite, which would imply \\(C^*C\\) is at least positive-semidefinite.
$$
A^*X + XA + C^*C = 0;
$$

The second is the pair \\((A,B)\\), which is analogous for controllability. The solution X to the following equation is positive-definite, implies \\(BB^*\\) is at least positive-semidefinite.
$$
A^*X + XA + BB^* = 0;
$$

For each respective case we call the solution X the, observability Gramian and controllability Gramian, respectively.

{:.james-box}
A Gramian of a set of vectors \\({\displaystyle v_{1},\dots ,v_{n}} v_{1},\dots ,v_{n}\\) in an inner product space is the Hermitian matrix of inner products, whose entries are given by \\({\displaystyle G_{ij}=\langle v_{i},v_{j}\rangle } G_{ij}=\langle v_{i},v_{j}\rangle\\).  
This means the Gramian is \\(G=G^*\\) ie. Symmetric with real values on the diagonal.

Now looking at the case of the controllability gramian, lets take the X and partition it as
$$
X = \begin{bmatrix}
       X_c & 0 \\[0.3em]
       0 & 0      
     \end{bmatrix}
$$  
Where \\(X_c\\) is nonsingular and represents the controllable part of the system.
